Performance Testing - non functional testing

Why we need Performance Testing?
           to check how the app responds
           response time
           latency
Types of Performance Testing:-
 Load Testing: to check for number of users, transaction 
Stress Testing: find break point application
Volume Testing:- database. check for more data
Spike Testing: to check of unusual increase or decrements ( just for one day or hour) 
Endurance Testing: validate for a long periods of time .
Scalability Testing: network , capability of system, processors,


why do we need to check how the application is responding?
 ip address- 133.45.454.343--- walmart

 web server: it will be static page only (html )
  multiple web server for each region.
load balancer: will check is this web server has place to serve? 
send  req to any web server who is available ...

JMeter:- We need a tool to simulate the environment needed for performance testing 
 Load Runner:- paid , license
JMeter - open source, 100% java application, platform independent


 If Response Time is too big..
server configuration is not good
increase RAM, Processor
 May be Application too complex.
SQl Query running with database 

Test Plan :- test plan is container . it will contain one or more elements ... test plan must have at least one thread group.
 workbench node:- it simply provides a place to temporarily store test elements while not in use, copy/paste purposes.  when you save test plan , workbench item will not save with it.

 to Stop test Plan :-
 STOP:- it will stop the threads immediately if possible
SHUT DOWN:- it requests the threads to stop at the end of any current work

 Thread Group : number of users..
   Number of users:--- users
Ramp up----- how long it will take JMeter to get all threads running 
Loop count ---- number of times to execute the test.

 Controllers:
 two types:- Sampler and Logic Controller
Sampler:- allows JMeter to send specific types of requests to server
Logic Controller:-  let you control the order of processing of samplers in thread.

Listener:- it let you view results of samplers in form of tables, graphs, tree, simple text in log file..

Timer:- by default , Jmeter threads sends reqs without pausing between each sampler. you can add timer element which allows you to define period to wait between each request.

 Assertion:-  allow you to add validation test on response. using that you can prove that your application is returning correct data or not.

Config Elements:- allow you to create defaults and variables to be used by samplers.. used to add and modify requests.

Pre- processors:- is something that you want to execute just before a sampler.
Post- processors:- it executes after a sampler finishes its executes.  used to process response data.

Executing order of test elements:-
Configuration elements
Pre Processor
Timers
Sampler
Post Processor (unless sample result is null)
Assertion  (unless sample result is null)
Listener  (unless sample result is null)
 
What is difference between URL and URI?
URL- www.whiteboxqa.com
 subset of URI

URI- ipaddress/path?query string 

Proxy Server - it is an Intermediate between client and server

BlazeMeter:- to record script












