Configuration testing:-
OS, Browser, Installation testing , Version ..

Security Testing:- authentication , authorization , captcha, security question
 captcha - you cann't automate..
 
authentication -  process of verifying who you are. when you log on to PC with a user name and password 
authorization - process of verifying that you have access to do something . 

Test Techniques:- 

Equivalence partitioning :- Inputs to application are divided into groups that are expected to exhibit similar behaviour
condition- (1 to 10)
 <1 , >10, 1-10
input:-  positive i/p- 2,6,8,
          negative - 0, 12 15 

log in page:- valid , invalid, user name blnk, pwd is blank.

Boundary value analysis:-  at boundary values , just before and just after the boundary value.

condition - 1-10
i/p-
boundary values - 1, 10
 just before value- 0, 9
just after value- 2, 11
1, 10, 0,9,2,11

real time -- time date


today 6th march
date-time

6th - 12:00
6th- 11:59 pm
7th - 12:01 am

Error Guessing-  random input test your application
Exploratory testing:- domain is not know. you will learn , study , discover new thing, experiment.
   domain - banking, eCommerce, health care....


Defect Life Cycle/ Bug : (IQ)

QA  - find a defect - Status -new- 
QA will assign that defect to Developer- status Assign
Developer will fix that defect - status - fixed
QA will test it again- Retest
Still defect is not resolve - Reopen
Developer will Fix it again.. come for testing
QA will test again --if now defect if fixed- Closed
if according to QA previously you fixed same type of defect - Duplicate


Priority :- according to developer point of view important of defect
       
Severity :- according to QA point of view important of defect
        
High Priority high severity:-  major functionality is not working eg. application  is launching in browser 

Low priority low severity :-  font style, color, size... look and feel....

high priority low severity:-  Company Logo , Company Name. 

low priority high severity : - help , contact -- which we are not daily .. , functionality not working so as QA is imporatant

When we logging a defect . Defect details/ information.: Defect ID, Description, Priority , Severity, Status, Assign to , Start date, end date, Remarks, Attachment ( SRS, BRD, Screen shot ), Iteration, release, test case, project 

Test Plan :- by QA lead.. how to do? ,
         testing  types, test techniques, start date , end date, iteration , release, risk analysis
        
 
Test Strategy :-  By product owner.--

.. what to do?
         project objective, scope, detail information about modules and project.


Test Case :-  By QA tester 
                  Test case ID, test case description, steps, owner name, date of creation , modify date, remarks, Browser, Expected out put , actual output, pass/fail



Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC)

      Requirement Analysis:- QA with interact with BA, Client, Lead to understand requirements in details.
 req can be functional or non functional
 deliverable:-  RTM (Requirement Tractability Matrix )
Test planning:- QA Lead will determine effort  and cost estimation for that project ..prepare one document test plan.

       prepare test plan/ test strategy document for various types of testing
Test tool selection
resource planning and roles and responsibilities.
deliverable:-  Testplan/test strategy document
effort estimation document


Test Case Development :- creation, verification and rework of test cases & test scripts. 
 create test cases, automation script
review test cases and scripts
create test data
deliverable:- test cases/ scripts
test data

Test Environment Setup :- 
 decides s/w and h/w condition under which work product is tested. can be done parallel with test case development
deliverable:- environment ready with test data set up
smoke test results


Test Execution:- testers will carry out testing based on test plan and test cases documents.
 bug willbe report back to dev team of correction and retesting 
Deliverable:- Test cases will get updated with results

Test Cycle Closure:-  QA is there any high priority defect or not ? 
 if high then fix the issue. if low priority than   check with client . if client is ready than you can release that s/w. but  you have to provide release note.
release  note:- you are mentioning all low priority defect 
Deliverable :- release note, report 


What are the things to be done from tester side before raising defect
Recreate Defect :- once you find a defect , we must try to recreate  3time-

 attach the screen shot write defect in easy way and clear. 
log defect:- we need to use tool .


















