What is software testing?
 process.  satisfy the specified requirement.
process of validation and verification that a s/w program or application or product.
activity to check whether the actual results match the expected results and to ensure that the software is defect free.
Testing the product against the requirement documents (SRS,BRD)

(IQ)
 verification - are we building the product right?( how it is  done?)
     as per requirement , it is working fine or not.
      it will perform  by developer.
       whitebox testing.
validation- 
   are we building the right product? (what is done?)
as per requirement, it is working fine or not along with that he will try to check some user actions
(navigation, links, positive negative scenario)
 it will be done by tester
black box testing.

why we need to do testing?
to deliver of higher quality software product
undetected errors are costly to detect at later stage.

 Bug:- a bug is the result of coding error.
 Defect:- a deviation from the requirements
 SRS ( CLIENT :- LOGIN TO HOME PAGE). LOGIN TO SCHEDULE HOME)
error:-  indicates serious problems that a reasonable application should not try to catch.
 exception:- indicates conditions   that reasonable application might want to catch.

What is manual testing ?
s/w testing where testers manually execute test cases without automation tools.
 any new manually tested before its testing can be automated.. manual testing more effort..
60 automation 
 40 manual
agile:---
 developer --coding
qa--test--
 manual testing we will do till application is unstable. automation 
stable application---

 100 % automation is not possible..

Types of software testing

functional testing:-  

 unit testing, integration testing, smoke testing ,sanity testing, UAT  ( User Acceptance testing)- (Alpha and Beta Testing), System testing.

 Unit testing :- on each module or block of code during development. it will be done by programmer who writes code. 

Whitebox testing techniques .
 dev-1 - log in -- pass
dev - 2 logout -- pass


 Integration testing:- individual software modules are integrated logically and testes as group.
 login-- logout --- not working .
QA will perform this testing.
 approaches/ methodologies/ strategies of integration testing:-
Big bang approach :- combine together as once and then tested. -- all modules 
top down approach :-  Testing takes place from top to down following control flow of s/w..
Stubs---- Dummy program.  --called program
bottom up approach:- each module at lower levels is tested with higher modules until all modules are tested.
 Diver ------Dummy module--calling program 

System Testing:-  hardware , software, network -- BY QA -- paralleling 

 Smoke Testing:- we will test critical functionalities of the program is working fine or not .. it is executed " before " any detailed functional or regression tests.
 eg. application is not launching , browser.  login  

smoke--- general health check up

Sanity Testing:-  sanity is done to check the new functionality/ bug have been fixed
 sanity --- specialized health check up 
eg. log in api 
 
 UAT ( user acceptance testing) :- after system tested or most defects. will delivered to user or customer for acceptance 
two types:-
alpha testing :- this test takes place at the developer' site (environments ). developers observe the users/client  and note problems. 

beta testing:- take place at customer site. if any defect they found they will send feed back. developer has to fix that.



non functional testing :- 
Performance testing, Load , volume, stress, Scalability , usability

 Usability testing:- user's ease to use the application
 Performance testing :- Load , stress volume
 Performance testing what we should analyze?
 Response time:- time to get total response
Latency:- time taken to get first byte of information 
Throughput: number of requests send to server per unit time
 for good application
 Response time , latency ---- less
 throughput --more

Stress Testing:- you will try to find out break point of application 
 give huge data, more requests. 
 Volume testing- testing with more volume of data in data base

TOOLS:- JMETER.. LOAD RUNNER 

Scalability testing:- ability of system , network or a process to continue function well when it is changed in size or volume ..
 Volume testing:- large amounts of data ..
Load testing:- large amount of users...

 
Regression testing:- 
mostly we will do this
 QA -- found defect --- assign that to developer -- developer fixed--
            login - defect

 fixed defect should not affect other modules . you will modules .. they are working fine or not 


 Retesting :-- only you will test fixed defect --
log in --defect 

Phases:-
 Dev - in development (unit testing)
Sit (System integration phase 
UAT (USER POINT OF VIEW
Prod live ( production)

White Box testing:-  testing the functionality by knowing design and code details.
 Developer - we write code to test the code
unit testing will be done by developer using whitebox testing 


Black box testing:-  testing the functionality without knowing code in details. 
 Done by QA.







 






 
